1.SECURE           JOBS by recovering           the 1 million jobs lost during           the pandemic within one year.          2.SECURE           ACCOUNTABILITY by enacting           a new Anti-Corruption law to clean up           the mess in Ottawa.          3.SECURE MENTAL HEALTH          though our Canada           Mental Health Action Plan.          4.SECURE THE           COUNTRY by creating a           strategic stockpile of essential           products and building the capacity to           manufacture vaccines at home.          5.SECURE THE ECONOMY           by balancing the budget           over the next decade.          CANADA'S RECOVERY PLAN          What is Canada's Recovery Plan?          You'll probably notice ideas that you haven't heard from Conservatives like me before.                                 It's time for Conservatives to take inequality seriously, because that's becoming             more of a problem in our country.                     At heart, I'm an optimist. I've never found looking back to be terribly usefully.             I know it's a cliché, but I truly believe that Canada's best days lie ahead.                    Canada is a community.          Our goal is the common good of all Canadians: a society where everyone can  fulfill    his  or   her     potential.          Our goal is to release the human spirit and potential of individual people, families             and groups.                     To nurture, mobilize, and encourage generosity, individual talent, patriotism, and             sense of community.                    And to provide the framework for a more sensitive and powerful means of protecting             and supporting the deprived and vulnerable.                    Thanks for reading,          Erin O’Toole Leader, Canada’s Conservatives Author, Canada's Recovery Plan          It's a plan. A very detailed plan.          That's what Canada needs after the past year and half.          The most important thing about a plan is that it's about the future.          In this case, that means your future‚Äì‚Äì your  personal   and  financial  economic   future.             Your well-being and security.                     It is a plan to secure Canada's recovery from the pandemic.          To get the economy back on track. To bring back jobs. To get spending back under control.          To tackle high prices (especially home prices)  and  fight inflation.          To get serious about the mental health crisis in our country.          To secure our independence from other countries for the things we need in an emergency.          So, while the plan is detailed, the priorities are actually quite simple.          Next, it's a plan for all Canadians. It's one that puts working Canadians at the front             of the recovery.                                                      BY RECOVERING THE 1 MILLION JOBS LOST DURING THE PANDEMIC WITHIN ONE YEAR.Every Canadian             deserves the security and dignity that comes with a secure, stable, and well-paid             job. Canada's Conservatives will enact a comprehensive jobs plan to get Canadians             back to work across the country.  ‚Ä¢ Take immediate action to help the hardest hit             sectors, helping those   - including women and young Canadians - who have suffered             the     most; ‚Ä¢ Rebuild main street by assisting small business and providing   incentives             to invest in, rebuild, and start new businesses; and ‚Ä¢ Create opportunity in all sectors             of the economy and all parts   of the country.                    JOBS SECURE                                             ACCOUNTABILITY SECURE          BY ENACTING A NEW ANTI-CORRUPTION LAW          TO CLEAN UP THE MESS IN OTTAWA.          Canada’s Conservatives will put the country first, by enacting the toughest          accountability and transparency laws in Canada’s history.           ‚Ä¢ Toughen the Conflict of Interest Act and impose higher penalties;          ‚Ä¢ Toughen the Lobbying Act to end abuse by Liberal insiders; and          ‚Ä¢ Increase transparency to end Liberal cover-ups.                                            THROUGH OUR CANADA           MENTAL HEALTH ACTION PLAN.          The last year has made clear the mental health crisis we face. It's time to make it             clear that mental health IS health,                     and to treat it properly.            ‚Ä¢ Boost funding to the provinces for mental health care; ‚Ä¢ Provide incentives to             employers to provide mental health coverage   to employees; and ‚Ä¢ Create a nation-wide,             three-digit suicide prevention hotline.                    SECURE          HEALTH          MENTAL                                            COUNTRY SECURE OUR BY CREATING A STRATEGIC STOCKPILE OF ESSENTIAL           PRODUCTS AND BUILDING THE CAPACITY TO MANUFACTURE VACCINES AT HOME.          We must never again be caught as unprepared as we were when COVID hit last year. Canada's             Conservatives will make Canada more resilient, reduce our reliance on foreign countries             like China, and take seriously our responsibility to protect the health of Canadians.                    ‚Ä¢ Partner with pharmaceutical companies to increase production of critical medicines             and build domestic vaccine production capacity;                    ‚Ä¢ Use procurements by government and those receiving government funding to strengthen             domestic production of PPE; and                    ‚Ä¢ Overhaul and rebuild Canada's National Emergency StockpileSystem to ensure we have             the supplies we need be prepared at all times for future threats.                                                      BY BALANCING THE BUDGET OVER THE NEXT DECADE.           SECURE THE ECONOMYSpending to protect Canadians in the pandemic was the right thing             to do, and Conservatives supported it. But we can't pass unsustainable debt on to             future generations. Once the recovery starts, we will need to get spending under control.             ‚Ä¢ Wind down emergency COVID support programs in a responsible    way as Canadians             are vaccinated and the economy re-opens; ‚Ä¢ Ensure that stimulus measures are targeted             and time-limited to    avoid     creating   a    structural deficit;   and ‚Ä¢ Get the economy             growing again after years of slow growth under    the  Liberals, so that we have the             revenue to pay for the government   services that Canadians rely on.                                                       A Detailed Plan To Secure Jobs and Economic Growth          17SECURE JOBS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH          Over the last year and a half, Canada's unemployment rate has been among the highest             in the G-7. Millions  of   Canadians  have  lost  their jobs, and  many  of   them  have  struggled     for  months     to   find  work. The             unemployment rate is compounded for young people just entering the workforce as well             as for women and racialized Canadians.                     Even worse, the Trudeau Government's painfully slow vaccine roll-out allowed the more             dangerous and transmissible COVID variants to spread out of control into a third wave             which necessitated lockdowns and stay-at-home orders across Canada. Hundreds of thousands             more Canadians lost their jobs as a result.                    The number of Canadians who have been unemployed for more than six months is stuck             near its highest level ever. More and more people are spending months on end unemployed,             making it hard for them to get   back  on   their feet. When  people     can  find  jobs, most  are     part-time.           We're worried that millions of Canadian workers and small businesses are being left             behind. It's time for a government with a jobs plan that will deliver for all Canadians.                                 The Liberals, NDP, and Greens don't have a plan to get Canadians back to work. They've             given us the worst economy since the Great Depression. Even before the pandemic hit,             Canada's economy had ground to a halt with zero growth at the end of 2019. Billions             in investment and thousands of jobs left Canada because of ideological Liberal policies             and attacks on job creators. The Liberals, NDP, and Greens    have  ruined     the  once-enviable     finances   of   Canada     with  very  little     to   show  for  it.                    Our top priority is getting as many people back to work in good jobs, in every part             of Canada, in every sector, as quickly as possible. We will do whatever it takes to             get people working and get the economy back on track. Canada's Conservatives got us             out of the last recession‚Äîwe'll get us out of this one, too.                     Our plan will also increase long-term economic growth. To create more good jobs and             put our govern-ment   finances   on   a    stable     footing,   we   can  no   longer     accept     the  slow  growth     of   the  last  few  years.           Canada's Conservatives will protect the Canadian social contract. That means jobs             and growth in every sector in every part of the country. There are many working Canadians             who haven't kept up with the economic growth and prosperity enjoyed by others for             years. Canada's Conservatives won't allow areas or sectors to be left behind.                    Our detailed plan to get Canadians back to work includes will four major initiatives             to create jobs:‚Ä¢ Canada Job S urge Plan: paying up to 50% of the salary of new hires             for six months following                    the end of CEWS.‚Ä¢ Canada Investment Accelerator: getting companies spending money             and creating jobs by                    providing a 5% investment tax credit for any capital investment made in 2022 and 2023,with   the     first $25,000    to   be   refundable for  small business.          ‚Ä¢ Rebuild Main Street Tax Credit:  providing  a    25%  tax  credit     on   amounts    of   up     to   $100,000 thatCanadians personally invest     in   a    small business   over  the  next  two     years,     to   get  money flowinginto             main street businesses and create jobs.                    ‚Ä¢ Main Street Business Loan: providing  loans of   up   to   $200,000   to   help  small and     mediumbusinesses             in hospitality, retail, and tourism get back on their feet, with up to 25% forgiven.                                                      The following pages provide details of our plan to create jobs by:‚Ä¢ Beating COVID-19             through vaccination and testing to fully reopen our economy: The    first step                    in getting Canadians back to work and keeping them there is avoiding future lockdowns             byprotecting Canadians from a fourth wave.                    ‚Ä¢ Taking immediate action to help the hardest hit sectors: The downturn has hit sectors             likehospitality, tourism, and airlines particularly hard, resulting in a recession             that has hurt womenand young people the most. We need to rebuild and get people back             to work.                    ‚Ä¢ Supporting small business: Small business is the engine of our economy. To rebuild,             we will needthousands of   new  small businesses to   fill  the  holes on   our  main  streets.           ‚Ä¢ Securing opportunities for women: The COVID crisis has exposed how precarious the             positionof women is in the Canadian economy. Long-term prosperity depends on women             having thesupport they need to be full participants in Canada's economy.                    ‚Ä¢ Making Canada the best place to invest and build a business: The Liberals, NDP,             and Greenshave actively driven investment out of Canada, and the results are clear:             jobs and investmentare going to the US and China instead of Canada. It's time for             that to change.                    ‚Ä¢ Building infrastructure to get the economy moving: A modern Canada needs moderninfrastructure:             that means connecting all Canadians to high-speed internet and building thetransportation             infrastructure that brings Canadian goods to market and Canadian workers towork.                    ‚Ä¢ Unleashing innovation: Canadians are among the most innovative people on earth but,             all toooften, Canadian innovators move to the U.S. to build their business or sell             to foreign investorswith the deep pockets to fund growth. It's time to make Canada             the best place in the world tostart - and scale - an innovative business.                    ‚Ä¢ Increasing trade with free nations: Canada is a trading nation. Millions of jobs             depend on trade.We need to pursue new trade deals - but we must focus on countries             that share our values andtreat workers with respect.                    ‚Ä¢ Creating opportunity in all sectors of the economy: Justin Trudeau has made it clear             that hewants to phase out industries that employ millions of Canadians. It's impossible             to understandwhy Trudeau would choose now, of all times, to make more Canadians unemployed.             We can't justhave a recovery for the downtowns of a few big cities. Canada's  Conservatives             are focused on arecovery that works for all Canadians.                    Beating COVID-19 through vaccination and testing, so we can fully reopen our economy.                                 The     first step  in   getting    Canadians  back  to   work  is   beating    COVID-19,  and  the     key  to   keeping    Canadians  back             at work is avoiding future lockdowns by protecting Canadians from a fourth wave.                     Canada's Conservatives know that the government needs to work with the private sector,             that we can't rely on the Chinese Communist Party, and that we need to see the world             as it really is. While we can't rewind     the  clock and  fix  all  of   Trudeau's deadly     mistakes,  we   can  ensure     that  we   do   everything we   can,  now,             to lead Canada out of this pandemic and reopen our economy.                     We need to be prepared for whatever is next, including the emergence of new variants.             As much as we would like it to disappear, it's likely that COVID will remain with             us and almost certain that we will face other pandemic risks. Liberal failures have             kept our country and economy shut down while others like                    18SECURE JOBS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH          19SECURE JOBS AND ECONOMIC GROWTH          the US and UK are months ahead of us in reopening. Fighting COVID and similar risks             will continue to be vital to rebuilding the economy and will be our top priority.                                 Canadians will likely need booster shots to protect against COVID-19. We need to be             ready for this. Canada's Conservatives will implement a plan to ensure that Canada             has faster and more consistent access to vaccines and that we have rapid access to             booster shots to deal with future variants.                    We will:‚Ä¢ Prioritize the signing of contracts for booster shots to ensure that Canadians             are protected as                    quickly as possible against new variants. We cannot afford to repeat Justin Trudeau's             failureswhich left Canadians behind in vaccine procurement.                    ‚Ä¢ Accelerate homegrown development and production of vaccines by Canadian companies             such asProvidence     Therapeutics,    Sanofi,    Medicago   and  others.                    ‚Ä¢ Support the provinces by rapidly making available to them whatever logistical resources             theyneed to deliver vaccines and booster shots to Canadians as quickly as possible.                    Protecting our most vulnerable and keeping our economy open will depend on testing             and contact tracing.  A    year  into  the  pandemic,  we   are  still not  using all  the     tools at   our  disposal   to   fight and  contain    outbreaks.             Under Trudeau's watch, Canada has fallen behind. Canada's Conservatives will get Canadians             ahead.                     Canada's Conservatives will implement a national rapid screening program to allow             businesses and public institutions to remain open in the face of future variants and             protect our country. Trudeau's failure to keep the variants out of Canada, after having             almost a year to prepare, is one of his most profound failures. Conservatives have             a plan to reopen and to remain open responsibly.                    We will:‚Ä¢ Deploy rapid testing at all border entry points and airports to screen new             arrivals.                    ¬∞ Everyone entering Canada (by land as well as by air), irrespective of their vaccinationstatus             and whether they are considered an essential worker, will be required to take arapid             test and possibly a PCR test upon arrival.¬∞ Rapid testing will help screen out cases,             while PCR tests will provide a higher level ofprotection.                    ‚Ä¢ Accelerate Health Canada approvals for rapid tests approved by the UK, the US, the             EU,Australia, New Zealand, Korea, and Taiwan. It is unacceptable that bureaucratic             barriers havekept these tests out of the hands of Canadians.                    ‚Ä¢ Make at-home rapid tests readily available to all Canadians.‚Ä¢ Immediately provide             more rapid tests to provincial governments to allow them to conduct                    screening, particularly at schools.‚Ä¢ Develop a clear, evidence-based strategy for             re-opening our border with clear timelines and                    metrics. We will restore urgency, rationality, and consistency to border regulations.‚Ä¢             Quickly close the border to travellers from hotspots where new variants are detected.                    ¬∞ We will not allow new variants into Canada as Trudeau has done through his delays             inenacting border measures to protect Canadians.                                                       Taking immediate action to help the hardest hit sectors          It's been a challenging year for Canadians, but the impact of COVID-19 hasn't been             felt equally by all. As much as the Prime Minister may want us to believe that ‚Äúwe're             all in this together,‚Äù the reality is that many better off white-collar workers have             been able to work from home. Jobs lost by higher-income workers have, for the most             part, come back. 
