PLATFORM 2021               Green Future              Annamie Paul  Leader           Life with Dignity    Just Society                                                 PLATFORM 2021            Message  from the  leader, Annamie  Paul             PLATFORM 2021             270 FOREST FIRES    270 fires were burning in  British Columbia   on the day this             election was called.                      49 DEGREES    The temperature hit 49¬∞C in  Lytton, B.C. this June,   and the ongoing             drought on the prairies is the   worst ever recorded.                      815 CANADIANS    815 Canadians died suddenly  in June because   of the devastating             heat dome.                      4TH WAVE    A fourth wave of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic   is underway as our children             head back   to school, and businesses attempt to re-open.                     2 / 97                                            There was a time when calling an election under these circumstances would have been             unimaginable; a time when any one of these events would have provoked an emergency             recall of parliament. Instead, we find ourselves in an election.                    Public health has lost out to partisan ambition,  and common sense has lost out to             the quest for power.                     It is now up to you what happens next and who will be sent to Ottawa to work for you.             I believe Canadians are ready to be daring and choose to send more Greens to Ottawa.                                 I believe that the people of Canada are ready for change.  The pandemic has provoked             a desire to strike out in a new direction towards a better destination.                    My election as Green Party Leader was an historic moment for Canada. In electing me             leader, the Green Party of Canada proved, once again, that big things are still possible.             In these unprecedented times, that is exactly what we need: a party that is matched             to the moment because it believes that big things are still ahead for Canada.                    In my past 11 months as Leader, I have emphasised that we need to seize three great             opportunities for Canada: turbo-boosting our move to a green future, ensuring a life             with dignity for every person in Canada, and forging a just society. Climate change             is here. By acting now, Canada has the chance of a lifetime to accelerate its transition             to a net-zero economy and become a world leader in clean tech and renewable energy.             It's where the jobs of the future are, and how we will stay globally competitive and             build a prosperous sustainable future.                     While our party is best known for its climate focus, our innovative social policies             have shone through during the pandemic. The urgent need for a guaranteed liveable             income, long-term care reform and a safe supply to combat the opioid drug poisoning             epidemic; sadly, the pandemic has proved their value these past months. There is now             a growing cross-party and civil society consensus around these and other Green party             of Canada ideas.                    People in Canada have clearly said that they don't want to go back to the way things             were. They now realise that we can't keep treading the same old road and hoping to             arrive at a different destination. They want more cross-party collaboration ‚Äì a flagship             Green value ‚Äì and less hyper-partisanship. They are ready to be daring.                    3 / 97            PLATFORM 2021    M          ESSAGE FR          OM THE LE          ADER                                              So, I ask you: as we prepare to face down the great challenges of our time, won't             our next Parliament be better off if more Green voices are in the House?                    For those who say Greens are dreamers, of course we are. We are also leading scientists,             entrepreneurs, students, creatives, and civil society leaders from diverse backgrounds             across the country. Take a look in your community for the great Green who is running             to represent you, and is ready to be your fearless, daring champion.                    In honour of the 815 Canadians who lost their lives in June's heat dome - Canada can             become a global leader in limiting global warming, securing our planet's future.                    In honour of the more than 15,000 who lost their lives in LTC during the pandemic,             Canada can become known as the country that best guarantees a life of dignity for             all from their first day to their last.                    In honour of the Indigenous children whose unmarked graves are still being discovered,             Canada can become a global model for Indigenous sovereignty and self-determination.                    My election as Leader of the Green Party of Canada was proof that Canada can still             be a country of firsts; a country that can still make history.                     To every person that is ready to be daring,  I say now is the time.            Annamie Paul          4 / 97            PLATFORM 2021    MESSAGE FR          OM THE LE          ADER                                               Green Future Energy and emissions: transitioning to a green economy           Fulfilling our International commitments                     Environmental justice                     Conserving and restoring our natural ecosystems                     Innovation                     Agriculture and food                      Fisheries and Oceans                     Rural revitalization           Municipal affairs           Transport                      Life with Dignity           Addressing the affordable housing and homelessness crises                     Guaranteed livable income                     Expanding universal programs:  post-secondary education, pharmacare, dental care,             and childcare                     Long-term care reform                     Decriminalization of drugs & a national safe supply program                     Expanded and enhanced mental health support           Preparing for future pandemics                     Seniors           Health            A Just Society Reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples and upholding the right to             self-determination                     Dismantling systemic discrimination in public institutions                     Tackling identity based hate                     Criminal Justice Reform          Immigration and Refugee Issues           International Affairs and Defence           Democratic Reform           Arts, Culture, and Heritage                     Fair Taxation                     Youth                     (Click to view)          5 / 97            PLATFORM 2021    C          ONTENTS                                              We need you to join us in supporting an ambitious plan to go beyond weak climate targets             that have never been met by Liberal or Conservative governments. Green policies are             bold and collaborative and can achieve net-zero emissions well before 2050.                    A Green  Future           ‚Üí Energy and emissions: transitioning to a green economy            ‚Üí Environmental  justice           ‚Üí Conserving and  restoring our natural ecosystem            ‚Üí International  commitments            ‚Üí Innovation            ‚Üí Environmental            ‚Üí Fisheries and oceans           ‚Üí Rural revitalization            ‚Üí Municipal affairs            ‚Üí Transport           ‚ÄúCanada has the chance of a lifetime. If we can combine the determination and ambition             of the people of Canada with real political will and leadership, Canada can become             a global leader in limiting climate change, and in creating one of the most competitive             green economies in the world.‚Äù                    Annamie Paul,  Leader of the Green Party of Canada           6 / 96          ‚Üë            PLATFORM 2021                                               Climate Change is Here. Climate change is already impacting our communities  and             we need you to help us implement resilient measures to keep them safe. Nearly 600             people died a sudden death from the extreme heat in B.C. in just one week this summer.             That is more than the number of people who died in B.C. during the deadliest month             of the pandemic. As hundreds of fires burn across Canada, crops wither in the field             on the prairies, and marine life bakes in the ocean, people in Canada are experiencing             first-hand the destructive impacts of our warming planet in real time.                    We have been given an alarm bell to act on climate change. The August 2021 report             of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was the latest             and most explicit warning of the role of human activity in climate change and its             impact on our planet. The UN Secretary General has described it as ‚ÄúCode Red for Humanity.‚Äù                    Human activity is the cause and the solution. The IPCC reported that human-induced             climate change is the main driver behind many weather and climate extremes, including             heatwaves, fire weather, heavy precipitation, droughts, and tropical cyclones, in             every region across the globe. Our actions caused global warming, but the actions             we choose to take now can limit it as well.                    We need to limit further climate change. The difference to our planet in holding global             warming to 1.5¬∞C global average temperature as against pre-industrial levels cannot             be overstated. While 1.5¬∞C global warming will cause extreme weather and climate events,             at 2¬∞C global warming and above, such events will become much more frequent and intense.                    We need to double our resolve to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, because we             know that, with every additional increase of global warming, the frequency and intensity             of hot extremes, marine heatwaves, flooding, droughts, and intense tropical cyclones,             reductions in Arctic Sea ice, snow cover and permafrost will continue to grow.                      Six Years of Failure. The Liberal government has caused Canada to fall further and             further behind our international partners in climate action ambition and in doing             our fair share. The UK has achieved 43% GHG reduction below 1990 levels and recently             pledged to achieve 78% below 1990 by 2035. The 27 countries of the European Union             recently pledged to cut GHG emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 and have set out a detailed             and ambitious climate plan.                     The results of the Liberal government's lack of ambition for the past six years are             clear. Under the Liberal government:                     ‚úó Emissions are 21% above 1990 levels; ‚úó Canada has never achieved a climate target;             ‚úó Canada has an emissions reduction target  that is well below global peers;                     ‚úó GHGs have risen in every year since 2016;            PLATFORM 2021             Green Future    |                Life with D          ignity    |        Just Society    |    G          reen Party of Canada           7 / 96          ‚Üë                                             ‚úó Liberals bought a pipeline and have increased subsidies to fossil fuels; ‚úó Canada             is now one of the top three worst per capita GHG emitters in  the G20.                    There is a great deal of hope  and a great deal we can do. Moving towards net-zero             emissions as quickly as possible is the greatest economic opportunity in generations,             and Canada can be at the front of the line.                    If we can combine the determination and ambition of Canadians with real political             will and leadership, Canada has the chance of a lifetime to become a global leader             in limiting climate change, securing our planet's future, and creating one of the             most competitive green economies in the world.                     The Green Party of Canada has a plan. We have been calling for a   non-partisan, collaborative             approach to the climate emergency for years.  Our Green Future is ambitious and doable             and will secure Canada's  sustainable prosperity.                     Energy and Emissions:   Transitioning to a Green Future            ‚ÄâA GREEN GOVERNMENT WILL‚Äâ:‚Äâ ‚Äâ          1. Achieve net zero emissions as quickly as possible. ‚Üí Ensure a reduction in greenhouse             gas emissions of 60 per cent from 2005 levels by 2030, with clear enforceable targets             and timelines starting in 2023                     ‚Üí Achieve net zero emissions as quickly as possible, while aiming to be net negative             in 2050.                    2. End all production of fossil fuels.  ‚Üí Cancel all new pipeline projects (beginning             with TMX) ‚Üí Cancel all new oil exploration projects ‚Üí End leasing of federal lands             for fossil fuel production and retire existing licenses ‚Üí Ban hydraulic fracturing             (fracking) ‚Üí End all subsidies to the fossil fuel sector ‚Üí Phase out existing oil             and gas operations, so that they continue on a declining basis with bitumen production             phased out between 2030 and 2035                     ‚Üí Require federal public investment funds (including the Canada Pension Plan Investment             Board) to divest from fossil fuels                     ‚Üí Ensure companies are held accountable for paying for the costs of cleaning up and             restoring land, instead of passing these to the public                      PLATFORM 2021             Green Future    |                Life with D          ignity    |        Just Society    |    G          reen Party of Canada           8 / 96          ‚Üë                                             A Just Transition for Workers 3. Support a Just Transition for workers           ‚Üí Introduce a Just Transition Act before the end of 2021 that takes care of workers             and communities during the transition.                     ‚Üí Plan for a fair and carefully planned transition of workers towards a decarbonized             economy, that protects communities from displacement, and in which affected people             (workers in greenhouse gas-intensive industries, Indigenous Peoples, marginalized             communities) are leading the preparation of their transition strategies.                     ‚Üí Replace every high paying fossil fuel sector job with a high paying green sector             job through wage insurance, retraining programs and early retirement plans.                     ‚Üí Reduce wealth inequality in Canada. Ensure that current wealth holders, particularly             those in the fossil fuel sector, pay their fair share. Close tax havens and loopholes             to redistribute wealth towards communities that have been underinvested in.                     ‚Üí Introduce laws that incentivize green investment and the creation of green jobs             (such as in sustainable transport and energy efficiency), and that disincentivize             unsustainable investments (such as by raising taxes on environmentally harmful goods             and services).                      ‚Üí Invest in the cleantech sector and in renewable energy, which will create more,             and higher paying jobs than those lost in the fossil fuel sector.                     ‚Üí Enact legislation on green jobs training programs, such as the creation of a youth             climate corps; for example, jobs related to ecosystem restoration, particularly for             people who have been displaced or severely affected by COVID-19.                     GREEN INNOVATION Just Transition through Renewable Energy          The renewable energy sector holds tremendous promise in helping to facilitate a just             transition for workers in the fossil-fuel sector in Canada. We must protect workers             in regions that are still highly dependent on the fossil fuel sector for a significant             percentage of their budget. Provinces like Alberta, Saskatchewan and Newfoundland             have been left dangerously exposed the volatility of global energy markets which they             are unable to control, and are in desperate need of economic diversification. If we             invest wisely, these regions can use their energy sector expertise to capitalize on             a variety of new opportunities in renewable technologies.                      PLATFORM 2021             Green Future    |                Life with D          ignity    |        Just Society    |    G          reen Party of Canada           9 / 96          ‚Üë                                            Green Regulation 4.  Enact a detailed Carbon Budget, determining the cumulative amount             of GHG that Canada can emit to do its part to keep warming to  1.5 degrees Celsius.             ‚Üí Revamp the World Trade Organization to the World Trade and Climate Organization             to ensure that trade is consistent with a global carbon budget                     ‚Üí Ensure that tariffs are determined based on the carbon intensity  of imported products          5.  Accelerate the increase in carbon taxes. ‚Üí Beginning in 2022 and up to 2030, increase             carbon taxes  by $25 per tonne each year.                     6.  Improve waste management and circularity. ‚Üí Reduce consumption, waste, and planned             obsolescence. ‚Üí Promote green procurement practices (procuring goods and services             that have a reduced environmental impact), as recommended by the United Nations Environment             Programme.                     ‚Üí Promote sustainable waste management practices, such as waste treatment, recycling,             and safe handling of healthcare and biochemical waste, by adopting legislative provisions             on issues including tax rebates or waivers on recycling initiatives.                     ‚Üí Proceed with regulations to ban non-essential, single-use plastics before the end             of the year, and expand the list of items to be banned. Champion a legally binding             global plastics agreement, ratify the Basel Ban Amendment and strengthen Canada's             rules for plastic waste trade to ensure Canadian plastic waste doesn't pollute other             countries.                    7. Introduce a Carbon Border Adjustment.  ‚Üí Enact a Carbon Border Adjustment, which             will ensure Canadian companies paying carbon taxes are not placed at a competitive             disadvantage with foreign companies located in countries with no such taxes.                      ‚Üí Continuously evaluate the impact of the Carbon Border Adjustment on developing             countries through a lens of global environmental justice.
