Ready for BetterNEW DEMOCRATS' COMMITMENTS TO YOU                                            Table of contents          My commitments for a New Deal for People      6          Making life more affordable for everyday people     9  Making sure everyone can afford             a place to call home       10                    Medicine for all           14          Affordable post-secondary education for everyone       16          Affordable, quality cell phone service and high-speed broadband for all    18          Better services all Canadians can rely on       19          Building an economy that works better for more people    21          Good jobs and new opportunities in every part of the country     23          Making Employment Insurance work for you       25          A livable income when you need it        28          Quality, affordable child care when you need it       29          A new, fairer deal for all workers        31          More accessible job training and lifelong learning for all      33          Supporting small businesses         34          Fair trade that grows our economy and benefits more people     35          Building Canadian industries and supporting good jobs      36          A new deal for tax fairness         39          Protecting our environment, securing our future     41          Taking climate leadership and getting to net-zero      45          Creating good jobs in all regions        47          Improving where we live and work        48          Changing how we get around         49          Powering our communities carbon-free        50          Protecting our land and water         51          Working Together          52                                            Taking better care of each other        53          Better health care for all Canadians         54          Better access to quality home care and long-term care      56          Extending Medicare to cover services you need       58          Confronting the opioid public health emergency       60          Healthy food in every community        61          Removing barriers for persons living with disabilities      62          Protecting pensions for everyone        63          Security for all seniors          64          Honouring our veterans          65          Tackling poverty           66          Reconciliation in action         68          Upholding Indigenous rights and advancing self-determination     70          Justice and healing ‚Äì addressing the harms of residential schools    72          Investing in children and ending funding discrimination      73          Safe, quality housing for all         75          Closing the education gap         76          Fostering thriving and resilient communities with clean water and strong public services             77                    Nurturing healthy communities         78          Supporting Indigenous employment and economic development    80          Honouring Indigenous women, girls and Two-Spirit people     81          Reconciliation and justice         82          Protecting the environment together        83          A new deal to build stronger, more vibrant communities    84          Building the infrastructure we need        85          Supporting Canadian arts and culture        87          Investing in rural communities         89          Welcoming new Canadians         91          Working together for safer communities        92                                            The courage to do what's right        94          Advancing gender equity         95          Upholding LGBTQI2S+ rights         97          Confronting racism          99          Promoting official languages         101          Enhancing our justice system         102          A government that works for you and not insiders      103          Making every vote count ‚Äì for real         105          A better role in the world         107          Defence at home and abroad         109          Our fiscal approach         111          Kick-starting the economic recovery and delivering the help people need now   113          Raising revenues through new, fair and progressive sources     114          *Please note that some of the photos in this document were taken before the pandemic.                                                                    My commitments for a New Deal  for People                                            Dear friends,          It's time for a government that delivers real results for people like you.           These last 18 months have been beyond challenging for too many Canadian families.             The truth is, these are tough times for many people. So many of us are just struggling             to get by, a situation that the COVID-19 pandemic only made worse.                    In every corner of the country, families are worried about jobs, the health of our             loved ones, and the public services that everyone counts on.                    We all want to go back to some sort of ‘normal' after the pandemic: to take care of             our loved ones, build a good life, and give a bright future to the next generation.                    But as I listen to Canadians, I hear the worry in people's voices. In every part of             the country, even before COVID-19, life was getting harder.                     Sadly, for the last six years the Liberals haven't done much to make life any easier.             It's been harder to keep up, as wages stay the same and good jobs with benefits become             harder to find. It's harder to find a home, as rents sky-rocket and housing prices             balloon out of reach for most people. It's harder to get the health care that we need,             with families stuck paying high out of pocket health care costs and worrying about             the quality of long term care loved ones receive. It's harder to have hope for the             future when we see the dangers of the climate crisis growing, and threatening everything             we hold dear.                     Going back to that isn't good enough.          The past 18 months have shown that Canadians can confront any challenge ‚Äì when we             have to, when we choose to, and when we come together. It's also shown us that thanks             to the decisions of Liberal and Conservative governments, many of the supports that             we rely on just aren't there when we need them. From the neglect of seniors in for-profit             long-term care, to the lack of affordable childcare for working families, we see that             decades of Liberal and Conservative cuts and privatization have left us all vulnerable.             Meanwhile, those at the top have done very well ‚Äì profiting during the pandemic while             ordinary Canadians struggled.                    It's time to do better.          Justin Trudeau wants to look like he cares. He says the right things, but when it             comes to helping Canadians, he had to be forced to provide real support.  Over the             last six years, he could have taken real action against stagnating wages, sky-rocketing             housing costs, unaffordable child care, crippling student debt, and ballooning prescription             drug prices. But he chose not to. When push comes to shove, he gives big corporations             and his wealthy friends a free ride ‚Äì because that's the world he comes from and that's             who has his ear.                    Meanwhile, Erin O'Toole's Conservatives offer nothing except more cuts, more privatization,             and more pollution. O'Toole didn't get a single benefit for Canadian families during             the COVID-19 crisis ‚Äì he was too busy protecting the interests of his rich friends.                                                                   It's frustrating, but not surprising. The Liberals, the Conservatives, and their revolving             door of corporate influencers do not want to change things for Canadians ‚Äì because             even during a global health emergency, the system works perfectly for the people and             corporations at the very top.                     It works for them ‚Äì but not for you.          If we want different results, we need to make different choices. And what we need             now is the courage to act together. And that is exactly what New Democrats offer to             Canadians.                    We don't answer to the powerful. We fight for people, and deliver the help that families             need first. It's who we are. We believe that we can work together to take care of             each other ‚Äì so everyone benefits.                     New Democrats are focused on getting results for Canadians. We are fighting for the             support that people need now. And we are winning results ‚Äì getting more help to more             people, faster.                      Ready for Better is our vision for what we believe is possible. And it is our commitment             to the real results that we're going to deliver for Canadians.                    This election is our chance to build a better future for everyone.           ¬© A future with health care that puts you first.           ¬© A future with good jobs, and help when you need it.           ¬© A future where your life is more affordable, and the wealthiest pay their fair             share.                      ¬© A future where our communities can confront the climate crisis and win.           ¬© A future where we take on longstanding inequalities that are hurting our country,             and end them.                    Our vision is built on our values, the ones that have driven our movement from the             very start. Our commitments are inspired by the hopes and dreams of Canadians today.                                 New Democrats are ready ‚Äì to lead us forward together, get results for Canadians,             and rebuild better than ever.                     Sincerely,          Jagmeet Singh, MPLeader, Canada's New Democrats                                              Making life more  affordable for you and your family                                            1 0          Ready for Better: New Democrats' Commitments to You          1 Statistics Canada, ‚ÄúCore Housing Need, 2018 Census.‚Äù Available online at: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/daily-quotidien/201002/dq201002a-eng.htm          Making sure everyone can afford a place  to call home Owning a home has become an             impossible dream for too many Canadians. Finding a decent place to rent is out-of-reach.             Everyone should have the right to a safe and affordable place to call home. Working             people should be able to afford to live close to their workplaces, including in the             heart of our biggest cities. Young people should be able to stay in the neighbourhoods             they've grown up in. And seniors should never be forced out of the communities that             they've spent their lives in.                    But for too many families, safe and affordable housing is increasingly out of reach,             thanks to skyrocketing rents, demo-victions and ballooning home prices. The pandemic             has only made things worse for people on the edge, with too many families struggling             to make rent or mortgage payments during the crisis. Parents lie awake at night, worrying             about how they can afford the family home, as costs keep going up but paycheques don't             keep up. And huge numbers of young people are being forced to give up on the dream             of ever owning their own house.                    Canada is in the midst of a national housing crisis impacting every area of the country:             Average rents rose in every single province last year, and 1.6 million Canadian households             spend more than 30 per cent of their income on housing1. Canada has the fastest growing             house prices in all of the G7, a trend that shows no signs of slowing.                     What this means in real terms is that families in our communities are facing constant             stress and impossible choices between rent or food; living in substandard housing             or relocating out of their community; or worse, the real risk  of homelessness.                    The worry and anxiety that people feel today is the result of the bad choices that             Liberal and Conservative governments have made.                    The Liberals have neglected the housing crisis in Canada for too long, turning their             backs on families that are struggling to stay in the communities where they want to             live and work. Even with modest new announcements to try to fill the gaps, the reality             is that their housing program is too small to make a real difference for most Canadians.             The Liberal government is telling Canadian families that they're just going to have             to wait longer for help, struggle more every month, and settle for less.                     New Democrats believe that it's time to help people ‚Äì now. We have an ambitious plan             that will make a difference in every community in our country ‚Äì because finding a             good, affordable place to live shouldn't be like winning the lottery. It's time to             relieve the stress and worry that people feel by choosing to make it easier to rent             and buy a home.                                                       1 1          Ready for Better: New Democrats' Commitments to You          A major part of the long-term solution to the problem is to ensure that more affordable             rental units are built across the country. One in three Canadians is a renter. In             many cities, what few affordable apartments there are get snapped up quickly, and             people end up living in either inadequate housing or simply forced to spend a huge             chunk of their income on rent.                    After six years in government, the Liberal plan is simply inadequate compared to the             scale of the housing crisis Canadians are facing. We need to take urgent action now             towards an ambitious plan to build affordable places to live in every community across             the country.                     That's why a New Democrat government will create at least 500,000 units of quality,             affordable housing in the next ten years, with half of that done within five years.             This will be achieved with the right mix of effective measures that work in partnership             with provinces and municipalities, build capacity for social, community, and affordable             housing providers, to provide rental support for co-ops, and meet environmental energy             efficiency goals. This ambitious plan will create thousands of jobs in communities             all across the country, jump-starting the economic recovery, and helping Canadians             get the affordable housing they need.                     In order to kick-start the construction of co-ops, social and non-profit housing and             break the logjam that has prevented these groups from accessing housing funding, we             will set up dedicated fast-start funds to streamline the application process and help             communities get the expertise and assistance they need to get projects off the ground             now, not years from now. We'll mobilize federal resources and lands for these projects,             turning unused and under-used properties into vibrant new communities.                     A New Democrat government will also spur the construction of affordable homes by waiving             the federal portion of the GST/HST on the construction of new affordable rental units             ‚Äì a simple change that will help get new units  built faster and keep them affordable             for the  long term.                    These measures will help address the housing crisis at the source, but we also need             to make sure that families that are hurting get help now‚Äì especially during the COVID-19             pandemic. Families do not have years to wait, when every day is a struggle and a constant             worry. That's why we'll provide immediate relief for families that are struggling             to afford rent in otherwise suitable housing, while we bring forward long-term solutions             to the housing affordability crisis.                                                      1 2          Ready for Better: New Democrats' Commitments to You          While making affordable rental housing more available is critical, New Democrats believe             that the dream of homeownership shouldn't be forever out of reach for Canadian families.             That's why we will re-introduce 30-year terms to CMHC insured mortgages on entry-level             homes for first time home buyers. This will allow for smaller monthly payments, freeing             up funds to help make ends meet for young families. We'll also give people a hand             with closing costs by doubling the Home Buyer's Tax Credit to $1,500.                     For Canadians who are open to innovative paths to home ownership, a New Democrat government             will provide resources to facilitate co-housing, such as model co-ownership agreements             and connections to local resources, and ease access to financing by offering CMHC-backed             co-ownership mortgages.                    Big money investors are driving up the costs of houses. No one can win a bidding war             against investors with deep pockets who are looking to turn a profit, not build a             neighbourhood. To help put an end to speculation that's fuelling high housing prices,             we'll put in place a 20% Foreign Buyer's tax on the sale of homes to individuals who             aren't Canadian citizens or permanent residents. New Democrats will also fight money             laundering, which fuels organized crime and drives up housing prices. We will work             with the provinces to create a public beneficial ownership registry to increase transparency             about who owns properties, and require reporting of suspicious transactions in order             to help find and stop money laundering. 
'