                                           Pipelines:                 Allowing our Oil and Gas Industry to Grow                                  Issue                                  Under the influence of radical environmental activists and American left-wing foundations,          the Trudeau government has done everything it can to stifle the growth of Canada's          oil industry by preventing it from transporting and selling its products.                                  With Bill C-48, the Liberals imposed a ban on oil tanker traffic on the north coast          of British Columbia, which brought the cancellation of the Northern Gateway and Eagle          Spirit pipeline projects. After years of legal uncertainty, investors pulled out of          the Trans Mountain pipeline expansion project and sold it to the federal government          for $4.5 billion.                                  Unrealistic environmental requirements from the National Energy Board also killed          the Energy East pipeline. Bill C-69 makes the process of building pipelines and other          major energy projects so complex and difficult that it could prevent any new investment.          Among other things, that bill requires projects to be analyzed based on the intersection          of sex and gender with other identity factors.'                                  Finally, in Justin Trudeau's second mandate, the new Biden administration cancelled          the Keystone XL pipeline project and the Michigan Governor has tried to shut down          the crucially important Line 5 that carries oil and natural gas liquids from Western          Canada to Ontario and Quebec.                                  Because of these constraints, capital investments in the oil and gas industry have          collapsed. Our overdependence on the American market for exports also costs the Canadians          economy billions of dollars in foregone revenues every year. Alberta's economy has          suffered a major setback, with tens of thousands of jobs disappearing in the oil patch          and many more in local communities that depend on this industry.                 Facts                                  Researcher Vivian Krause has spent years documenting a well-organized campaign to          landlock Canada's oil, funded by American foundations such as the Rockefeller Brothers          Fund and the Tides Foundation. Almost all the groups involved in various types of          campaigns and court cases against pipeline construction received money from them.                                  Despite the emergence of alternative sources of energy, global demand for oil is expected          to keep rising for several decades. Canada has the third-largest oil reserves in the          world and is well placed to answer this demand.                                  If this oil doesn't come from Alberta and Saskatchewan, it will come from elsewhere,          mostly countries with poor environmental or human rights standards such as Russia,          Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. And if it is not transported by pipelines, it will be          transported by rail, a much more dangerous method for both the environment and humans,          as we saw with the Lac-Megantic tragedy.                 Our plan                                  The oil and gas industry has been for decades a major source of employment, government          revenues, and economic well-being for all of Canada. It should be allowed to grow,          export its products, and bring prosperity to our country.                 A People's Party government will:                                  Counter anti-oil and anti-pipeline propaganda from radical environmentalists and foreign          foundations.                 Repeal Bill C-48.                 Repeal Bill C-69.                 Approve pipelines projects using a streamlined process.                 Find a private buyer for Trans Mountain.                 Reassert federal jurisdiction over pipelines construction by invoking section 92(10)          of our Constitution, whereby Parliament can declare any project to be for the general          advantage of Canada.                 Work with industry and with our American partners to possibly revive cancelled projects          and keep Line 5 in operation.                                                   Indigenous Issues:                 A New Relationship Based on Mutual Respect                                  Issue                                  The indigenous population of Canada is extremely diversified. It accounts for about          5% of Canada's population and comprises First Nations, Inuit and M√©tis. There are          more than 600 First Nations communities dispersed across the country. More than half          of First Nations Canadians don't live on reserves.                                  Indigenous issues are also very complex. Some communities are prosperous, others much          poorer than the Canadian average. Many suffer from critical social issues, including          homelessness, crime, domestic violence, substance abuse and suicide. Many don't have          the basic services that we take for granted such as access to clean water. There are          other major issues to address regarding treaty negotiations, housing, property rights          on reserves, residential schools, etc.                                  It is not possible to address more than a few of these issues in the context of this          election platform. Here is what a People's Party government would prioritize on the          basis of its four key principles.                 Respect                                  Many injustices were committed in the past by the Canadian government towards indigenous          peoples, some of which are still ongoing. We cannot rewrite the past, but only seek          the best way to live together harmoniously in the future. This relationship must be          based on mutual respect and a balanced approach taking into account the needs of the          indigenous population and the interests of the Canadian population as a whole.                                  A People's Party government is committed to seeking options to replace the paternalistic          Indian Act, which keeps indigenous peoples in a state of dependency and allows the          federal government to control most aspects of their lives, with a new legal framework          that guarantees equal rights and responsibilities to indigenous people as Canadians,          and promotes the self-reliance of communities.                 A People's Party government will respect our Constitution and treaties. It will reaffirm          the federal government's power to approve natural resources and infrastructure projects,          after adequate consultations with affected indigenous groups, and in partnership with          them to ensure they can benefit from these economic opportunities.                                  Freedom                                  The lack of real private property on reserves is in part responsible for the poor          state of housing and the social ills that derive from it, and is one of the greatest          impediments to economic development.                                  A People's Party government will explore further avenues to promote the establishment          of individual property rights on reserves so as to empower its residents, and give          them increased control over their lives.                                  Fairness                                  Fairness demands that all Canadians benefit from roughly equivalent services wherever          they live. It's unacceptable that some indigenous communities live in conditions that          resemble those of third world countries. But the current model to solve these problems          is based on top-down bureaucratic solutions imposed by Ottawa on dependent communities          with no voice in the process.                                  A People's Party government will ensure that indigenous communities take more ownership          of the services they receive in partnership with Ottawa and other levels of government.                                  Responsibility                                  Although Ottawa spends about $24 billion a year on indigenous programs, there is little          evidence that living conditions have been improving in indigenous communities. The          federal government and indigenous administrations have a responsibility to ensure          that taxpayers' money is well spent.                                  A People's Party government will review federal spending to ensure that programs are          better targeted to benefit the indigenous population, in particular the communities          that have the greatest needs.                                                                    Internal Trade:                 Getting Rid of Interprovincial Trade Barriers                                                   Issue                                  More than a century and a half after Canada's founding, Canadians still cannot buy,          sell, or work freely within their own country. In order to protect local special interests,          provincial governments have adopted all kinds of measures that erect barriers to trade          and labour mobility.                                  Goods such as alcohol and agricultural products cannot be sold freely across provincial          borders because of government monopolies or regulations. Nurses, accountants, or engineers          have problems finding work in another province because their skills are not automatically          recognized. Safety rules vary from one province to another.                                  In some cases, it is easier for a Canadian company to sell its product in another          country than in another province or territory. This hinders competition and impedes          the growth of firms. Canadian consumers are therefore forced to pay more for goods          and services.                                  This is not what the Fathers of Confederation had intended. Section 121 of the Constitution          states that goods must be ‚Äúadmitted free into each of the other provinces.‚Äù However,          in the 2018 landmark Comeau case, the Supreme Court ruled that measures which have          the effect of limiting trade are unconstitutional only if it can be demonstrated that          this is their ‚Äúprimary purpose.‚Äù This level of proof would be extremely difficult          to establish in most cases.                 Facts                                  The 1994 Agreement on Internal Trade negotiated between Ottawa, the provinces, and          the territories, failed to eliminate barriers. Its successor, the Canadian Free Trade          Agreement, came into force in 2017, but almost half of its 345 pages contain exceptions          and opt-out measures, rendering it ineffective.                                  From an economic point of view, interprovincial barriers have the same effect as customs          tariffs imposed on imports from other countries. According to a Statistics Canada          study, the level of trade within Canada corresponds to what would be expected if each          province imposed a 7% tariff on ‚Äúimports‚Äù of goods and services from other provinces.                                  A 2016 study published in the Canadian Journal of Economics concluded that interprovincial          trade barriers cost Canadians roughly $100 billion in lost economic opportunities          annually. This is equivalent to a staggering $7,500 per household every year.                 Our plan                                  Freeing our economy from these interprovincial trade barriers would help families          and businesses. It would also increase competition, raise productivity, and unite          our country.                 A People's Party government will:                                  Reassert the authority and leadership of the federal government on internal trade.                 Use section 91(2) of the Constitution, which gives Ottawa exclusive power to regulate          matters of international and interprovincial trade, to force provinces to apply the          principle of mutual recognition where applicable. This principle means that if a worker,          product or service meets regulatory standards in one province, then other provinces          will trust that they meet their own standards.                 Appoint a Minister of Internal Trade whose sole responsibility will be to conduct          studies, raise public awareness, counteract the influence of special interests that          benefit from interprovincial barriers, and put pressure on provincial governments          to get rid of them.                                                                    Housing:                 Cooling Down an Overheated Market                                  ISSUE                                  Housing has become out of reach for many Canadians, in particular for young families          living in big cities. Vancouver and Toronto have become two of the most unaffordable          large cities in the world.                                  Over the past decades, the federal government has spent billions of dollars and created          various bureaucratic programs to presumably make housing more affordable, with no          results. Among other things, it has manipulated the financial criteria to qualify          for mortgages and mortgage insurance, provided tax breaks to first buyers, and funded          social housing.                                  The fundamental problem however is the mismatch between supply of and demand for housing,          that Ottawa, the provinces and municipalities are making worse with other policies,          in particular mass immigration and zoning restrictions.                 FACTS                                  About 40% of immigrants to Canada end up settling in only two cities, Toronto and          Vancouver, where the housing shortage is most acute. The Trudeau government has increased          immigration targets from 250,000 per year under the Harper government, to 350,000,          and is now planning to increase it to over 400,000. Mass immigration is one of the          main reasons for the constantly high level of demand for housing and the exorbitant          prices in these cities. Even if a lot more houses were to be built, supply cannot          keep up with this level of demand.                                  Overall inflation has become a major problem in every sector of the economy and is          a consequence of inflationary monetary policy ‚Äì that is, the Bank of Canada printing          too much money in order to fund the Trudeau government's gigantic deficits. This inflationary          policy adds to the already overheated conditions in the housing market.                 OUR PLAN                                  Housing is primarily a provincial or local responsibility. Ottawa's involvement over          the years has only resulted in distorting the housing market. There is nothing the          federal government can do to change provincial or municipal zoning laws, but it can          stop contributing to the overheating of the housing market in different ways.                                  A People's Party government will:                                  Substantially reduce immigration quotas, from about 400k planned by the Liberal government,          down to 100k-150k per year. This will help reduce demand for housing and cool down          these markets, especially in the large cities where most immigrants settle.                 Modify the Bank of Canada's inflation target, from 2% to 0%. This will cool down inflation          in all sectors, including housing.                 Stop funding social housing, which unfairly competes with private developers and has          historically been a financial, social and urban planning disaster in every city where          it's become widespread. It is not the government's role to build and rent apartments.          Dependency on government handouts is never the solution.                 Privatize or dismantle the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), a mammoth          government agency that fuels the housing crisis instead of helping to cool it down.          All it has ever done is encourage Canadians to buy houses they can't afford, and accumulate          massive amounts of debt that the federal government, and ultimately Canadian taxpayers,          will be responsible for.                 Work with provinces to curb speculation and money laundering by foreign non-resident          buyers in Canada's land and housing markets.                                                   Firearms:                 Respecting Legal Firearms Owners and Targeting Criminals                                  Issue                                  The use of firearms has always been part of Canadian tradition and culture. Today,          there are over 2 million hunters, ranchers, trappers, farmers, target shooters, recreational          shooters and collectors who possess firearms in our country.                                  However, despite this group being exceptionally law abiding and the most highly vetted          segment in the Canadian population, the existing firearms legislation unfairly targets          them, does not respect their property rights, and is highly arbitrary. The latest          addition to this unfair legislation is the Trudeau government's ban of thousands of          guns on the basis of appearance rather than function through a simple cabinet decision.                 Facts                                  In 1995, Bill C-68 created the Firearms Act, the strictest gun-control legislation          in Canadian history. Its most controversial feature, the creation of a long-gun registry,          was repealed in 2012.                                  The Act continues to classify firearms into different categories for reasons which          frequently have nothing to do with their function. Firearms can also be assigned new          classifications at the whim of a bureaucrat. What is legal one day can become illegal          the next.                                  Under the licensing system of the Act, the ownership of firearms has become a privilege          that can be revoked or altered at any moment. Legal gun owners can lose their property          and even have their life ruined by being criminally charged through their inaction          (by not keeping their paperwork up to date for example) or due to the moving goalposts          of Canadian firearms law.                 Our plan                                  Canada's firearms legislation must protect society from the criminal misuse of firearms          and prioritize the deterrence and punishment of criminals.                                  Peaceful and responsible firearms owners deserve a legal framework that protects their          property rights and treats them with fairness and respect. We need a common-sense          approach to gun control that promotes safety while removing the threat of arbitrary          criminal prosecution.                 A People's Party government will:                                  Replace the Firearms Act and supporting legislation with new legislation that will          prioritize effective measures to improve public safety and fight crime in Canada.                 Replace the costly and burdensome licensing system with an efficient lifetime certification          system for firearms owners following mandatory vetting, safety training and testing.          To avoid criminalizing peaceful and responsible gun owners and guarantee their property          rights, this system will legalize simple possession of firearms for certified Canadians          as long as they use their firearms lawfully and don't commit some other crime that          would disqualify them from firearms ownership. 
